if young Saul Hudson had never earned
the nickname slash if he had never met
Axl Rose or never joined Guns N'Roses if
he had never looked like he was born
with a cigarette nailed to his lips he'd
still be a pretty fascinating guy but
all that other stuff that's pretty
awesome too
slash grew up in LA his dad designed
album covers his mom designed costumes
for the likes of John Lennon and David
Bowie surrounded by music it wasn't long
before slash became a rock and roll icon
himself in an era of hair metal bands
GNR with lots of hair managed to sound
authentic the perfect mix of gutter and
glam
they knew how to behave like rock stars
offstage as well a mix of ego and drugs
and debauchery well it pretty much
destroyed the band so last month GNR
inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of
Fame but Axl rejected the honor and
didn't show and while slash says he
would have loved to play that show with
a reunited GNR he's got plenty to keep
him busy a new band a new solo record
called apocalyptic love and after the
drama of GNR and his subsequent group
Velvet Revolver he finds himself in a
stable band for the first time in a long
while so is it possible for him to be at
peace and still totally rock
no I was just thinking that particular
song it's really great it's such a great
song yeah every time right here we're
just waiting in the end the bio was a
crazy such a good track out there um
welcome back you got another record
that's gotta be really exciting yeah I
can happen pretty quickly
was it was it part of the plan did you
know you were gonna make it this kind of
well you know um
during the tour you know the band was
you so great I was like if I was gonna
do another record I do it with these
guys you know and then the tour was over
it came back and put it all together
miles is the guy who's fronting this
band who was on your other record right
now so this is the instant thing about
your choice obviously you know you're
your first big band you have this you
know there's a volatility then you have
velvet rubber there's volatility then
you make a record with a bunch of
different singers which is that brings
its own kind of instability really it
gave me a whole new lease on singers did
it yeah they were all just a pleasure to
work with you feel like it's just
changed my attitude you know it's a good
G that's one of the think great things
about working with a lot of people as
you learn to you you know you learned
that people by and large are all great
and then also you can you learn to adapt
to different personalities and different
working styles and so on it helps you
grow as a person and as a position I
guess you're right because you can get
your experience with singers as one kind
and much-talked-about
so in when you get into this environment
you see all these different singers play
out then you kind of create this stable
band with this singer so is so we all
those songs the new mile sat down to
write I mean chemistry is important what
was it like to try to make records
together well I mean it started with
that first
couple songs that we did from the last
record where he came into the studio and
he was just this mmm you know very
mild-mannered very sort of laid-back
cool dude you know not sort of full of
himself and not that whole big
presentation that goes with some singers
right and so from that moment on the
tour just went great and I was like
these are the guys that I should make a
real rock record with yeah I was
thinking about how um you know people
who follow music these days say how come
music isn't like it used to be and I
think there's lots of great music today
but there's certainly a culture that
seems to be missing and the more and
more I read about your childhood the
more I thought the 70s don't exist
anymore
and that wasn't really what I think
created a lot of the space for guys like
you to develop I mean even your
community is a kid your neighbors and
who your parents worked with like you're
around great influence on me for sure
hey let's go to I'll betray these album
covers here this is this is a connection
to slash here let's put one up here's oh
you get this Joni Mitchell record right
every right and then we had this one as
well show the next one Ringo Starr album
I mean those are both connected to your
through that suit yeah and why do you
remember that cuz my mom put it together
and she painstakingly put every single
one of those little sequins in my hand
and it was a long arduous process that
seemed to take an eternity so they are
connected to him a Beatle album cover
hood and and what about the Joni
Mitchell one well my dad let's see my
mom made her all our clothes and my dad
did her album covers like three or four
of them so she was pretty close friend
of the family an amazing artist and did
she live close to you guys right yeah
like down the street well that's the
thing like when you were kid Bo we used
to come to your house well that was a
different neighborhood different area
that was later on cuz that was my mom
was dating him and so that was after my
mom and dad split up to see that was you
knew he was Bowie like did you
understand who bully was at the time I
knew him from the album covers no I mean
I liked his music and and it was an
interesting time I had to have been like
um roughly eight maybe nine years old
you know so it was sort of light and
they were never home there came up they
came by the house every so often he
would come over but uh you know they
were always off sort of running around
but I went to a few boy shows as a
result the reason um it's got a really
influenced your worldview though just
being around all that doesn't it well it
you know um I you know at the time no I
didn't pay much attention to it it's
just when you're a kid you just go with
the flow and then as I got older um then
it started to realize that a lot of
stuff that I'd learned had sort of
prepared me to deal with a lot of the
stuff that I was dealing with it the
present and yeah I'd have to say I have
to attribute some of the sort of way
that I handle things just having been
around it before yeah you're the only
guy I know who is actually really
charming about flatlining three times in
your life well
I mean the fact that you're when you
when you when you have a chance to sort
of laugh about it it's better to laugh
about it their future I know the the the
G in our Rock n Roll Hall of Fame thing
is pretty cool but what I think is
really aside from it's awesome that the
you're talking 25 years of Appetite for
Destruction which is amazing is that
you're going in the Hall of Fame with
the Red Hot Chili Peppers and you go to
school with flea flea like high school
yeah high school junior high actually
I could've both who would have known
that these two dudes walking down the
hallway well the funny thing about flea
and.and he actually did play on the last
record we did a song with him and Alice
Cooper and Steve Adler and flea and
Stephen and myself all lived within a
certain amount of block radius and so
before any of us picked up an instrument
well I picked up the instrument that we
ended up playing professionally we all
knew each other from the block you know
yeah I mean and obviously you guys would
never have been million years
said you know in 25 years 30 years
whatever working that we're gonna have
this yeah what do you make of the of the
25 years of appetite hey you know it's
it's it's uh it doesn't feel like it was
that long ago but at the same time you
know it feels like a lifetime ago it's
weird so it's it's it's a really great
honor but at the same time it's it's it
hasn't sunk in yet
you know like I mean I remember I first
heard about the whole Rock and Roll Hall
of Fame the the the fact that we were
going to be eligible in 2007 when guns
ville revolver played in place of Van
Halen for their induction and somebody
had said you know you're gonna be
eligible in seven or five years and I
was like you know sort of like wow yeah
right and I put it out of my mind so
when the nomination came it was pretty
heavy that was that was when it felt the
most special it's got to be a cool place
cuz so much water has passed under the
bridge and there's obviously whatever
personal stuff that went on but for the
public that record meant a lot to them
right yeah and it's it's it's sort of a
drag cuz we're not gonna get together
and play you were doing well I mean I
would but it's just the way that's
working out I think it's amazing when
you tweeted both a birthday to Duff
McKagan and you call them the redhead
you just said happy birthday Ayers
what's the foot history
how different would this world of
rock-and-roll had been had you actually
joined poison cuz you tried out for
poison that wouldn't have lasted no no
that was I have to I have to say it was
part of my sort of opportunistic way of
dealing with things at the time I was
looking for a gig and those guys the
original guitar player was a friend of
mine and so he went back to Pennsylvania
and he said you know you should take
that gig cuz they were the biggest band
in LA before was pregnant with you yeah
so I was like I know I mean I normally I
hate poison but but maybe just for a
second so I what you know went down and
I played the either stuff but there
was no way I was gonna wear those kind
of clothes well I heard that I heard
that that Bobby doll actually asked you
like what are you gonna wear he goes are
you gonna wear kind of shoes you're
gonna wear cuz I was wearing moccasins
the time and that rubbed me the wrong
way
Elisabet self but I knew it was it was
it was a an ill-fated you know attempt
when I when I was leaving and CeCe
walked in cuz Cece was came in dressed
for the part and I just I knew that
second you know well it's amazing how
important it to certain bands flash
really is well that you know I mean All
Things Considered there's a lot of bands
that that you know the dolls and kiss
and Motley Crue and David Bowie for you
know a lot of people sort of have these
you know iconic sort of kind of looks
that dad had made them really famous and
taking chances doing that I don't think
poison is one of them but at the same
time that was what their whole shtick
was the only problem with the bands that
were sort of jumping on that parade in
the 80s is that most of them didn't have
any musical background or soul okay you
know which is yeah well in a weird way
um I mean people would recognize you by
a silhouette right cuz you have that
iconic look now but it seems like it's a
look that's yours as opposed to one that
you put on people would know a
silhouette Oh slash anywhere it was
really was that part of the plan no I
just thought I mean I really when it
comes down to it it was not a what you
call a fabricated kind of a thing it was
just whatever you throw together and
that's sort of in every day kind of the
way
but I think the Hat made it different
sure yeah but I think that's one of the
reasons why you it didn't seem fab for
your career you've been able to pop in
and out of different rooms and bands I
mean you're one of those guys who was
around the Michael Jackson world huh
yeah what don't we what don't we know
about that world that you know um about
Michaels I mean Michael you know I mean
I only knew him honor for the most part
of professional level I don't even think
when he attempted to be any closer than
that I even allowed it because it's just
too crazy you know there's there's being
famous and then there's being that kind
of famous and that's that's a crazy
world to be in because you have no sense
of reality you can see that from the
outside because I'm cold I was close
enough at that point cuz Guns N'Roses
was probably the biggest stadium rock
band at the time and then you have
Michael who was the sort of Elvis
Presley of the period and he's like
that's scary thing and he was just
dealing with it and I felt for him
because he as an artist one of the
genius artists most genius artists I'd
ever really been around next to maybe
Ray Charles and a couple other guys and
and you know sort of stuck in this world
where nobody is real you know nobody
will talk to him in a real fashion
everybody's sort of around and so they
can gain something from him so on and so
forth it's a very lonely situation
I wonder if you ever had a small version
of that when you tried to put together a
new band because you are a slash so um
did you ever experience that kind of
thing where people weren't talking to
you like a real person well I mean I've
you know I mean most of these guys are
you know most of the people I surround
myself with even if I hadn't been in a
band with them along I bet I've known
him for a long time so there's certain
elements of that but not to the extent
where Michael was you know right stick
around we're gonna find out if one of
his obsessions still remains true
anthropology with slash when we come
back
you
you guys you guys we've got some bad
news
slash isn't real wet or never / isn't
real he's a beta person that represents
care and giving and people dressed up
like him and lie to their kids / it
make-believe here look for yourself he's
based on a fable of a dutch saint named
vultures lauch ventures - what but then
who played at my eighth birthday party
one of our parents but then who is the
guitar player for Guns N'Roses
one of our parents serious that's
awesome man that is
you haven't seen that before no I heard
about it I heard about it I've never
seen it making sell for it's got to be
pretty good I mean that's a huge honor
okay let's put some anthropology mom
your rapid-fire some things towards you
my kids are gonna come back to me about
that are they about to other party not
real yeah well sometimes am so as
suppose you really are like Santa how
are you able to be in so many places at
once the older you get the more you seem
to be doing yeah I'm a busybody and I
think you know what it is is ever since
I got sober I put all my energy that I
used to put into drinking and drugs back
into music so I'm always jamming and
just open for opportunities and stuff
and I like like I said earlier I like to
work with a lot of different people on
sort of keeps you humble and and you
learn a lot is it is it like a new lease
on life
um what being sober yeah um you know I
mean it's it's uh you know I'm not the
preachy sort it's been it's been good
for me because uh you know I was I was
getting to that point where it starts to
take over and I wasn't getting anything
done and even more importantly was I
wasn't being able to interact to be able
to do the things that I wanted to do cuz
no one would take me seriously cuz I
represented this character which was
just like you know and so anybody who
wanted to work with me thought it was a
free ticket to go party and I even as I
might have been I was always dead
serious and so I started attracting like
musicians that were just like come
onboard so they could hang out the it
has gotta suck so it took a long time
but finally I got to the point where it
just wasn't you know I was getting
anything fun out of it wasn't
entertaining did you come to that
realization did people around you tell
you you're becoming it yeah I one of
those people that doesn't listen anybody
so it took it took me to get there sorry
alright so uh when you first started
talking did you have a British accent
yeah you did my mom played me a tape of
it uh somewhere I think I was like
around seventeen years old and she said
I got this cassette and she played it I
had this really thick northern British
accent it's funny that's amazing he did
you know I was like fire were you
consciously trying to lose the accent or
did it just go away well when I when I
moved to the states I think I was such
sort of in public school such an outcast
cuz I was so different from other the
kids cuz I belong here
and it seemed like with all the hippie
musicians that we knew none of the
schools that I went to any of their kids
went to so you know what I mean so I was
in this really straight world and I just
never really fit in so I think I
consciously was trying to straighten my
accent out just to be a little bit more
you know to fit in or whatever oh
absolutely I'm so I know that you had
this used to really love pinball
machines and Evon life so yeah how many
do you still have a bunch I still have
um I've three in the house and I rotate
them so I probably have about in total
maybe nine or ten always you have a
prized piece or you know not really
prized but my favorite one um you know I
let a lot of cool ones and eclectic
one's my favorite functional one is the
Addams Family
that's all right it's one of the best
pinball machines ever met dude I
downloaded the Slayer pinball app and
it's dogs pretty cool there's an ac/dc
line as well it's so amazing every time
you hear the scream up and I mean um if
you were to let's say in a Scientology
why you were gonna start a new religion
devoted entirely to guitars who would be
your Holy Trinity oh come on that's a
that's a tough question I mean you know
obviously put put Jimmy Page in there um
I probably put Albert King in there and
um Pete Townsend I don't know it's a
toss-up if you tied but that you know
that's really limiting me to just knit
well yeah but also nailing down to like
you put Segovia in there and that would
be great you know this little trade
Jimmy Page for Segovia just for this one
for this conversation that's okay you
know before you were talking with the
idea of sitting in a hotel room where
you're talking about the idea of a
battling addiction or whatever in
dealing with it there's always been this
myth that creativity comes out of chaos
and uh you know you have to be screwed
up or you have tension in a band for a
guy who's lived it a lot is it true I
don't think so I mean i-i've had moments
you know tense moments that have
produced something on a creative level
that are pretty cool but by and large I
feel more comfortable being creative
when I feel really comfortable and at
peace with whoever I'm working with and
that makes me way more creative than the
opposite so I don't adhere to that
method myself Robert Plant on the show
we were talking actually offstage and he
was talking about for songwriters
sometimes as they get older
they don't write lyrics as much because
they may not have the things to say and
they're not sure what they want to say
at a certain stage of their career for a
guitarist do you ever not run our riffs
but does it change when you get older
the kinds of riffs you feel like playing
or not I think it probably gets better
especially for me because in this
context like we're having a conversation
but I'm relatively mute person and I
don't express myself verbally and so I
you know I internalized mostly
everything so I express it musically so
that gives me an endless wealth of
emotional stuff to say on the guitar so
I think I'll be doing that you know for
as long as I'm breathing internalizing
is can be really tough if you don't have
you oh yeah definitely you god knows
what kind of trouble I'd be in if it
weren't for guitar playing right well
congrats on the Hall of Fame congrats
Mia the the apatite anniversary
survivals in and of itself an
accomplishment for anybody and Congrats
on the new record man well done our
chairs good to see cute thank you buddy
apocalyptical are visiting the Randall
record